10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
1
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
机密★启用前
广东省 2022 年普通高等学校专升本招生考试
英 语
本试卷共 46 小题，满分 100 分。考试时间 120 分钟。
第一部分 阅读（共两节，满分 40 分）
第一节（共 15 小题，每小题 2 分，满分 30 分）
阅读下列短文，从每题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出最佳选项。
A
If you are conducting businesses in foreign markets, it is necessary to know the customs and
traditions of the locals when it comes to New Year’s Day celebration. This knowledge can help
you blend in better with your foreign co-workers or make a good impression on your target
audiences. Let’s find out how some European countries celebrate New Year’s Day!
Denmark
While in some cultures, breaking things is a bad sign, Danish people welcome New Year’s
Day by smashing unused plates and glasses against the doors of family and friends. This action is
performed with the aim of warding off evil spirits. Some people even stand on chairs and jump off
them together at midnight in the hopes of bringing good luck.
Spain
People in Spain have a unique way to celebrate New Year’s Day. It is a custom to eat 12
grapes at midnight on New Year’s Eve, one at each stroke of the clock. Each grape is a
representation of a month of good fortune in the coming year. If you are able to get all of them
into your mouth, all of your wishes will come true!
Ireland
In preparation for New Year’s Day, people in Ireland make sure their entire house, including
their gardens and cars, is cleaned without a spot. They have the custom of throwing bread at the
walls as the clock approaches midnight to scare away evil spirits and bring good luck in.
Greece
If you are offered a cake on New Year’s Day in Greece, you may need tough teeth. As
January 1st is also Saint Basil’s Day in Greece, many Greeks celebrate this day with extra-special
customs. They bake St. Basil’s Cake with one special ingredient — a coin made of gold or silver.
If you get a slice of cake that contains this coin, you will have a full lucky year.
Germany
Every year, millions of people flock to Berlin for one of Europe’s largest New Year’s Eve
celebrations. It is called Silvester, during which people gather for wishing for good luck. They
throw parties, watch fireworks, and drink a German sparkling wine. Families melt lead at home by

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
2
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
holding a flame beneath a tablespoon, then putting it into water. The pattern shown is said to
predict the coming year. For example, a heart or ring shape indicates an upcoming wedding while
a pig is a sign of plenty of food.
1. Which of the following is a Danish tradition to welcome New Year’s Day?
A. Doing cleaning B. Breaking things
C. Watching fireworks D. Drinking wine
2. Eating grapes on New Year’s Eve is a custom in ______.
A. Greece B. Ireland C. Spain D. Denmark
3. What might Greeks find in St. Basil’s Cake on New Year’s Day?
A. A grape B. A coin C. A ring D. A tooth
4. What does a pig shape of melted lead indicate in Germany?
A. Someone will marry soon. B. Someone will strike the clock.
C. Someone will jump off the chair. D. Someone will have sufficient food.
5. What is the common purpose of celebration activities in the five countries?
A. To get good luck B. To be successful in business
C. To scare away bad spirits D. To wish for a good harvest
B
Today lots of people love to wear T-shirts for the fashionable feel. In most cases, people wear
the right T-shirt under a sports coat instead of a traditional dress shirt and shirt and tie.
The T-shirt did not look like the T-shirt we know today until after the First World War
(1914—1918). During World War I, some soldiers were wearing old-fashioned woolen uniforms
during the summer, while other soldiers wore cotton undershirts that were significantly cooler.
During the 1920s the word “T-shirt” was added to a dictionary. By the Second World War, most
soldiers wore cotton T-shirts as standard underwear.
T-shirts were considered solely as underwear until the 1950s. In those days, even the word
“underwear” was never mentioned in the upper social class. So in the 1950s, it was quite shocking
to see movie stars such as Jean Arc and James Ron wearing just a T-shirt! But by 1955 it became
socially acceptable for young men to wear just a T-shirt without a regular shirt covering it. James
Ron, the famous film star, made this style “cool” for teenage males across Europe.
Today T-shirts become part of people’s way of life. People wear T-shirts that promote their
favorite music band or sports team. People wear T-shirts advertising places that they have visited.
T-shirts with images of cartoon characters are worn by children of all ages. In fact, you can find
every cartoon character that ever graced the screen on a T-shirt somewhere.
6. How do people normally wear a T-shirt today?
A. They wear it under a sports coat.
B. They wear it under a shirt.
C. They wear it under a dress.

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
3
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
D. They wear it under a uniform.
7. During the First World War, soldiers found cotton undershirts ______.
A. durable B. acceptable C. fashionable D. comfortable
8. Before the 1950s, the upper class considered wearing just a T-shirt ______.
A. formal B. normal C. inappropriate D. isolated
9. Which group of people was influenced by James Ron’s T-shirt dressing style?
A. Female musicians. B. Male stars.
C. Male teenagers. D. Sportswomen.
10. What can we know about people from the T-shirts they wear?
A. Their preferences. B. Their families.
C. Their ages. D. Their destinations.
C
Scientists have come up with a new way of identifying animals in an area by testing DNA
sucked out of the air. The researchers believe their new method could help scientists keep track of
animals that are hard to spot, including endangered animals.
A team of scientists in Denmark came up with the question: Could they identify the animals
in an area from DNA that was simply floating in the air? At the very beginning, they didn’t have
high hopes for the new method.
Every living thing has DNA that can be used to identify it. All creatures leave bits of DNA
behind them wherever they go — for example, from skin, hair, feathers, or waste. DNA left behind
like this is called “environmental” DNA, or eDNA. Scientists can use this eDNA to tell what kinds
of animals are in a certain place.
Testing for eDNA isn’t a new idea, but most of the time, scientists look for it in water. DNA
in the air is usually so small that it would take a microscope to see it. The Danish scientists
worked on an experiment. They collected samples from different locations at a zoo, using
vacuums（吸尘器）and fans to collect extremely tiny bits of DNA onto very high quality filters.
In the laboratory, they got the DNA from the filters and made copies of it to study. By
comparing these samples with examples of DNA from different animals, the scientists were able
to identify many different animals at the zoo. They identified 49 different kinds of animals. They
even identified DNA from animals that were inside sealed buildings. The scientists chose to test in
the zoo because there were rare animals not naturally found in the area. As Dr. Elizabeth Clare,
who led the team, said, “There’s no other way I would detect DNA from a tiger, except for the
zoo’s tiger.”
The researchers are excited about the ways this new method could be used in the wild.
Scientists have been looking for better ways to track endangered animals without interfering with
them. If scientists know where animals live, they can do a better job of protecting them.
11. What could the new method help scientists according to Paragraph 1?

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
4
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
A. To trace the hard-to-spot animals.
B. To identify rare animal species.
C. To count animal numbers.
D. To record animal types.
12. What was the Danish scientists’ attitude to the new method before the experiment?
A. Neutral. B. Doubtful. C. Positive. D. Critical.
13. In most cases, scientists look for eDNA ______.
A. from air B. in laboratory C. from waste D. in water
14. Why did the scientists collect samples in the zoo?
A. Because the zoo had samples not locally found.
B. Because animals at the zoo were easily tested.
C. Because they could easily get help in the zoo.
D. Because their laboratory was in the zoo.
15. In which section of a magazine does this passage most likely appear?
A. Health. B. Environment.
C. Science. D. Geography.
第二节（共 5 小题，每小题 2 分，满分 10 分）
阅读下面短文，从短文后的选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。每个选项只能选一次。
When people go to the movies today, they can settle in to watch and listen to a story. But
what if when the lights dimmed and the movie began, there was no dialogue, sound effects, or
music? 16 Those silent films are important to film history.
When movie theaters showed silent films, a musician was often there to play live music along
with the movie. 17 Occasionally, musicians or theater staff also produced sound effects,
such as tires screeching or doors slamming. 18 Instead, the story was told through the
performers’ motions and through words shown on the screen.
When movies first included sound, audiences weren’t sure what to think. Not everyone was
excited about the new type of film which became known as the “talkie”. 19 Clara Bow, who
was a famous silent-movie actress in the early 1920s, was too nervous about her voice to become a
star in the world of talking pictures. She failed from the spotlight and left show business
altogether.
The first movie with sound, The Jazz Singer, was released in 1927. 20 After that,
talking pictures became a huge success.
A. It marked the beginning of a new era.
B. That’s what the first movies were like.
C. Music was chosen to fit the mood of the movie.
D. However, there was no sound in the movie itself.
E. Many silent film performers had trouble with the new format.

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
5
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
第二部分 语言运用（共两节，满分45分）
第一节（共15小题，每小题2分，满分30分，10年插本公号·Tim插本英语）
阅读下列短文，从每题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
During the last fifty years psychologists have made us believe that differences between men
and women are mainly the 21 of the way we are brought up. According to this theory
women can be trained to do 22 that men traditionally do, and men can and should do more
23 . This so-called “new man” should be more 24 and emotional.
But two books newly 25 say that, according to a recent scientific study, gender
differences 26 because men’s and women’s brains work completely 27 and their
biological differences mean that they can never think or 28 the same way.
Try this experiment: read a 29 aloud from a book or magazine. At the same time tap（轻
敲）on the table with one finger, and try to 30 a constant speed. Do this first with your right
hand and then with your left hand. If you are a 31 , you will be able to maintain constant
speed with 32 hand. Men, however, when tapping with their left hand will 33 down.
This is one of the many 34 that prove men’s brains are in compartments（功能区）, with
verbal abilities on the left side and spatial abilities on the right. For women, however, verbal and
spatial 35 are dealt with on both the left and right sides of the brain.
21. A. practice B. result C. part D. fact
22. A. cleaning B. cooking C. jobs D. exercises
23. A. research B. experiments C. assignments D. housework
24. A. communicative B. boring C. happy D. aggressive
25. A. selected B. published C. borrowed D. bought
26. A. stay B. disappear C. exist D. matter
27. A. differently B. positively C. silently D. happily
28. A. move B. walk C. reply D. behave
29. A. picture B. word C. phrase D. passage
30. A. exceed B. reduce C. keep D. record
31. A. man B. woman C. writer D. scientist
32. A. either B. left C. neither D. right
33. A. turn B. bring C. shut D. slow
34. A. magazines B. books C. experiments D. works
35. A. problems B. abilities C. differences D. features

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
6
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
第二节（共 10 小题，每小题 1.5 分，满分 15 分）
阅读下面短文，在空白处填入一个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。
When I was younger, I didn’t use to get any exercise. For a long time I regretted not 36
(do) much sport, but recently, I decided things needed to change. I saw a marathon on TV and
made up my mind that was 37 I wanted to do.
I started slowly because I felt I needed to get used to 38 (thing) gradually. I went
swimming in the local pool and started going to a gym. I then 39 (join) a group of runners.
We met each week and we had 40 excellent coach who gave us guidance and training tips.
At first I found the training quite hard and I nearly gave up because I thought that everyone
was 41 (good) than me. However, I decided to persevere with it and I’m really glad I did. I
realized that 42 I wanted to take part in such a big race, I had to be willing to try.
I now go running twice a day as well as going to the gym and I run marathons 43
(regular). To tell the truth, I wish I 44 (run) a marathon years ago. I’d certainly advise
anybody to give 45 a try. It’s amazing how good it can make you feel.
第三部分 写作（满分 15 分）
46．【写作内容】你是班长李华，端午将至，你班计划举办主题班会。请给外教 Tim 写一
封电子邮件邀请他参加。内容包括以下要点：
（1）时间：6 月 3 日 晚上 8 点
（2）地点：教学楼 306 课室
（3）主要活动：包粽子、讲故事、朗诵诗歌等
【参考词汇】Dragon Boat Festival 端午节
【写作要求】正文约 100 个英文单词，文中不可出现你自己的真实姓名、学校等信息。
【评分标准】信息完整，语言规范，语篇连贯。
【真题整理】10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
7
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
广东省 2022 年普通高等学校专升本招生考试
英语真题（参考答案精析）
一、阅读理解（2 分/题，共 30 分）
A
1.【精析】B 细节题。定位到第二段第一句 breaking things is a bad sign, Danish people
welcome New Year’s Day by smashing unused plates and glasses against the doors of family and
friends“打碎东西是一个坏兆头，丹麦人把闲置的盘子和杯子砸在家人和朋友的门上，以此
迎接新年”。
2.【精析】C 细节题。定位到第三段第二句 It is a custom to eat 12 grapes at midnight on New
Year’s Eve“除夕午夜吃 12 颗葡萄是一种习俗”。
3.【精析】B 细节题。定位到第五段倒数第二句 They bake St. Basil’s Cake with one special
ingredient — a coin made of gold or silver. “他们用一种特殊的配料烤圣巴西尔蛋糕，一种由
金或银制成的硬币”。
4.【精析】D 细节题。最后一段最后一句 a heart or ring shape indicates an upcoming wedding
while a pig is a sign of plenty of food“心形或环形表示即将举行婚礼，而猪则表示食物充足”。
5.【精析】A 主旨大意题。本文主要讲述各国庆祝新年的习俗，由第二段末尾 bringing good
luck、第三段末尾 your wishes will come true、第四段末尾 bring good luck in 和第五段末尾 you
will have a full lucky year 都可得知各种新年庆祝活动都是希望“带来好运”。
【全文翻译】
如果你在国外市场做生意，那么在庆祝新年时，了解当地人的风俗习惯是很有必要的。
这些知识可以帮助你更好地融入外国同事，或给目标受众留下好印象。让我们来看看一些欧
洲国家是如何庆祝新年的！
丹麦
虽然在某些文化中，打碎东西是一个坏兆头，但丹麦人通过将闲置的盘子和玻璃杯砸向
家人和朋友的门来迎接新年。这个动作是为了驱邪。有些人甚至在午夜站在椅子上一起跳下，
希望能带来好运。
西班牙
西班牙人用一种独特的方式来庆祝新年。除夕夜午夜吃 12 颗葡萄是一种习俗，每敲一
次钟就吃一颗。每一颗葡萄都代表着来年一个月的好运。如果你能把所有葡萄都吃到嘴里，
你所有的愿望都会实现！
爱尔兰
为了准备新年，爱尔兰人确保他们的整个房子，包括花园和汽车，都被清洁干净。他们
有一个习俗，在午夜来临时向墙上扔面包，以吓跑恶灵，带来好运。
希腊
如果你在希腊的新年收到蛋糕，你可能需要一口硬牙。由于 1 月 1 日也是希腊的圣巴西
尔节，许多希腊人用特别的习俗庆祝这一天。他们用一种特殊的配料烤圣巴西尔蛋糕，一种
由金或银制成的硬币。如果你得到一块含有这枚硬币的蛋糕，你将会全年幸运。

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
8
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
德国
每年，数百万人涌向柏林，参加庆祝活动，这是欧洲最大的除夕庆祝活动之一，被称为
西尔韦斯特，人们在这期间聚在一起互祝好运。他们举办派对、看烟火、喝德国起泡酒。人
们在大汤匙下点燃火焰，使汤匙中的铅融化，然后将其放入水中，所显示的图案据说可以预
测来年。例如，心形或环形表示即将举行婚礼，而猪则表示食物充足。
B
6.【精析】A 细节题。定位到第一段第二句 people wear the right T-shirt under a sports coat
“人们在运动外套内穿合适的 T 恤”。
7.【精析】D 推断题。定位到第二段第二句 some soldiers were wearing old-fashioned woolen
uniforms during the summer, while other soldiers wore cotton undershirts that were significantly
cooler“一些士兵在夏天穿着老式的羊毛制服，而其他士兵则穿着明显凉爽的棉质汗衫”。
由此可知 T 恤很 comfortable“舒服”，10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语。
8.【精析】C 推断题。定位到第三段第一二句 T-shirts were considered solely as underwear until
the 1950s. In those days, even the word “underwear” was never mentioned in the upper social
class. “直到 20 世纪 50 年代，T 恤还仅被认为是内衣。彼时，即使是‘内衣’这个词在上
流社会中也从未被提及。”由此可知在这之前，仅穿一件 T 恤是 inappropriate“不合适的”。
9.【精析】C 细节题。定位到第三段最后一句 James Ron, the famous film star, made this style
“cool” for teenage males across Europe. “著名影星詹姆斯·罗恩让这种风格在全欧洲的青少
年男性中变得‘很酷’。”
10.【精析】A 推断题。最后一段主要描述 T 恤成为了人们的一种生活方式，人们会将对音
乐、体育、旅游和影视等的喜爱通过 T 恤表现出来，符合 A 选项的 preferences“偏爱；喜
爱”。
【全文翻译】
今天，许多人喜欢穿 T 恤衫，以获得时尚的感觉。在大多数情况下，人们在运动外套
内穿合适的 T 恤，而不是传统的礼服衬衫、衬衫和领带。
直到第一次世界大战（1914-1918）之后，T 恤才看起来像我们今天所知道的 T 恤那样。
在第一次世界大战期间，一些士兵在夏天穿着老式的羊毛制服，而其他士兵则穿着明显凉爽
的棉质汗衫。20 世纪 20 年代，“T 恤”一词被添加到词典中。到第二次世界大战时，大多
数士兵都穿着棉质 T 恤作为标准内衣。
直到 20 世纪 50 年代，T 恤衫还仅被认为是内衣。彼时，即使是“内衣”这个词在上流
社会中也从未被提及。因此，在 20 世纪 50 年代，看到让·阿尔克和詹姆斯·罗恩这样的电
影明星只穿一件 T 恤，人们会非常震惊！但到 1955 年，年轻男性只穿一件 T 恤衫，不穿普
通衬衫，社会上已然接受这一现象。著名影星詹姆斯·罗恩让这种风格在欧洲各地的青少年
男性中变得“很酷”。
如今，T 恤衫已成为人们生活方式的一部分。人们穿着宣传自己喜爱的乐队或运动队的
T 恤衫。人们穿着 T 恤衫，宣传他们去过的地方。所有年龄的儿童都穿印有卡通人物形象的
T 恤衫。事实上，每一个曾在屏幕上出现过的卡通人物你都可以在某处找到。

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
9
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
C
11.【精析】A 细节题。定位到第一段第二句 new method could help scientists keep track of
animals that are hard to spot, including endangered animals“新方法可以帮助科学家追踪难以发
现的动物，包括濒危动物”。
12.【精析】B 推断题。定位到第二段最后一句 At the very beginning, they didn’t have high
hopes for the new method. “一开始，他们对新方法没有抱太大希望。”由此可知他们态度
是 doubtful“怀疑；不确定的”。
13.【精析】D 细节题。定位到第四段第一句 Testing for eDNA isn’t a new idea, but most of the
time, scientists look for it in water. “检测 eDNA 并不是一个新想法，但大多数时候，科学家
都在水中寻找它。”
14.【精析】A 细节题。定位到第五段倒数第二句 The scientists chose to test in the zoo because
there were rare animals not naturally found in the area.“科学家们选择在动物园进行测试，因为
里面有一些并非当地自然发现的珍稀动物。”与 A 选项对应“动物园有当地未发现的样本”。
15.【精析】C 推断题。本文讲述了科学家们通过测试 eDNA 这种新方法对动物进行研究，
属于科学领域。
【全文翻译】
科学家们提出了一种新的方法，通过测试从空气中吸入的 DNA 来识别一个地区的动物。
研究人员相信，他们的新方法可以帮助科学家追踪难以发现的动物，包括濒危动物。
丹麦的一个科学家团队提出了一个问题：他们能从飘浮在空气中的 DNA 中识别出某个
区域的动物吗？一开始，他们对新方法没有抱太大希望。
每一种生物都有可以用来识别它的 DNA。所有生物无论走到哪里，都会留下一些 DNA，
例如皮肤、毛发、羽毛或排泄物。这样留下的 DNA 被称为“环境”DNA 或 eDNA。科学家
可以利用这个 eDNA 来判断某个地方有哪些动物。
检测 eDNA 并不是一个新想法，但大多数时候，科学家都在水中寻找它。空气中的 DNA
通常很小，需要用显微镜才能看到。丹麦科学家进行了一项实验。他们在动物园的不同地点
采集样本，使用真空吸尘器和风扇将极微小的 DNA 碎片收集到高质量的过滤器上。
在实验室里，他们从过滤器中提取 DNA，并制作副本进行研究。通过将这些样本与来
自不同动物的 DNA 样本进行比较，科学家们能够在动物园中识别出许多不同的动物。他们
鉴定了 49 种不同的动物。他们甚至鉴定出来自密封建筑内的动物身上的 DNA。科学家们选
择在动物园进行测试，因为该地区有一些并非自然发现的珍稀动物。正如领导该团队的伊丽
莎白·克莱尔博士所说：“除了动物园的老虎，我没有其他方法可以检测到老虎的 DNA。”
研究人员对这种新方法在野外应用的方式感到兴奋。科学家们一直在寻找更好的方法来
追踪濒危动物而不干扰它们。如果科学家知道动物生活的地方，他们就可以更好地保护它们。
二、五选五（2 分/题，共 10 分，10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语）
16.【精析】B 上文“But what if when the lights dimmed and the movie began, there was no
dialogue, sound effects, or music”（但如果当灯光变暗，电影开始时，没有对话，没有音效，
没有音乐，那会怎么样呢）是对“silent films”（无声电影）的描述，与选项 B“That’s what

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
10
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
the first movies were like”（第一部电影就是这样的）内容前后呼应，故选 B。
17.【精析】C 由上文“a musician was often there to play live music along with the movie”（一
位音乐家经常在现场为电影配音）可知空格处的内容与音乐相关，由后文“musicians or
theater staff also produced sound effects, such as tires screeching or doors slamming”（音乐家或
剧院工作人员也会制作音效，比如轮胎的刺耳声或门的砰砰声）可知，对应选项 C 中“fit the
mood of the movie”（适应电影的气氛），故选 C。
18.【精析】D 后文“Instead, the story was told through the performers’ motions and through
words shown on the screen”（相反，故事是通过表演者的动作和屏幕上显示的文字来讲述的）
的内容与选项 D“However, there was no sound in the movie itself”（但是，电影本身并没有
声音）相呼应，故选 D。
19.【精析】E 根据前文 Not everyone was excited about the new type of film which became
known as the “talkie.”（并不是所有人都对后来被称为“有声电影”的新型电影感到兴奋）以
及后文列举了 Clara Bow 的例子来说明许多默片演员对这种新形式的电影感到头疼，故选 E。
20.【精析】A 根据前文“The first movie with sound”（第一部有声电影）以及后文“talking
pictures became a huge success”（有声电影取得了巨大的成功）可知，选项 A“It marked the
beginning of a new era”（它标志着一个新时代的开始）最符合文意，故选 A。
【全文翻译】
当人们现在去看电影时，他们可以坐下来看和听一个故事。但是，如果当灯光变暗，电
影开始时，没有对话、音效或音乐又该如何呢? 第一部电影就是这样的。那些无声电影在电
影史上很重要。
当电影院放映默片时，经常会有一位音乐家与电影一起演奏现场音乐。选择的音乐与电
影的氛围相吻合。偶尔，音乐家或剧院工作人员也会制作音效，比如轮胎的刺耳声或门的砰
砰声。但是，电影本身并没有声音。相反，故事是通过表演者的动作和屏幕上显示的文字来
讲述的。
当电影第一次包含声音时，观众不知道该怎么想。并不是所有人都对后来被称为“有声
电影”的新型电影感到兴奋。许多默片演员对这种新形式感到头疼。克拉拉·鲍是 20 世纪
20 年代早期著名的默片女演员，她对自己的声音太过紧张，以至于不能成为有声电影世界
的明星。她在聚光灯下失败了，彻底离开了演艺圈。
第一部有声电影《爵士歌手》于 1927 年上映。它标志着一个新时代的开始。在那之后，
有声电影获得了巨大的成功。
三、完形填空（2 分/题，共 30 分）
21.【精析】B 根据句意“在过去的五十年里，心理学家让我们相信，男女之间的差异主要
是我们成长方式的结果”可知，设空处表达“结果”。practice“实践”；result“结果”；
part“部分”；fact“事实”，故选 B。
22.【精析】C 结合下文可知，men can and should do more housework“男性可以并且应该
做更多的家务”，由此可知，女性可以接受培训，从事男性经常从事的工作，设空处表达“工
作”。cleaning“打扫”；cooking“烹饪”；jobs“工作”；exercises“锻炼”，故选 C。

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
11
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
23.【精析】D 结合上文可知，女性可以接受培训，从事男性经常从事的工作。由此可推断，
男性同样可以做更多的家务，设空处表达“家务”。research“研究”；experiments“实验”；
assignments“任务”；housework“家务”，故选 D。
24.【精析】A 根据 emotional“情绪化的”可知，此处涉及性格特征，B、C 选项不属于性
格特征，D 选项“好斗的”明显不符合，故选 A。communicative“乐意沟通的”；boring“无
聊的”；happy“快乐的”；aggressive“好斗的”。
25.【精析】B 设空前后表达“最近出版的两本书”，设空处表达“出版”。selected“选
择”；published“出版”；borrowed“借入”；bought“买”，故选 B。
26.【精析】C 根据句意可知，设空处表达“存在”。stay“停留，保持”；disappear“消
失”；exist“存在”；matter“有重大影响”，故选 C。
27.【精析】A 由下文的 biological differences“生理差异”推断，男性和女性的大脑运作是
完全不同的，设空处表达“不同地”。differently“不同地”；positively“积极地”；silently
“默默地”；happily“快乐地”，故选 A。
28.【精析】D 男性和女性生理上的不同，意味着他们思考的方式不同，ABC 选项涉及的
内容都比较片面，D 选项 behave“行动，表现”，包括了 ABC 选项的内容，think and behave
“想和做”。move“移动”；walk“步行”；reply“回答”；behave“行为”，故选 D。
29.【精析】D 由下文的 book or magazine“书或杂志”可知，设空前后表达“读书或杂志
上的段落”。picture“图片”；word“单词”；phrase“短语”；passage“段落”，故选 D。
30.【精析】C 根据上下文可知，设空前后表达“用一根手指轻敲桌子，尽量保持匀速”，
设空处表达“保持”。exceed“超过（数量）”；reduce“减少”；keep“保持”；record
“记录”，故选 C。
31.【精析】B 根据下文 Men, however, when tapping…可知，将男性和女性进行对比，设空
处讲的是女性。man“男性”；woman“女性”；writer“作家”；scientist“科学家”，10
年插本公号·Tim 插本英语，故选 B。
32.【精析】A 根据文章的最后一句话 For women, however, verbal and spatial…of the brain.
可知，女性左右手都可以。either“两者中的任何一个”；left“左边的”；neither“两者都
不”；right“右边的”，故选 A。
33.【精析】D 上文讲到，女性敲击桌子能保持匀速。结合 however“然而”可知，与女性
相比，男性无法保持匀速，用左手敲击时会放慢速度。turn down“拒绝，调少”；bring down
“打倒，击落”；shut down“关闭，停业”；slow down“放慢，减速”，故选 D。
34.【精析】C 由最后一段的第一句 Try this experiment“试试这个实验”可知，最后一段都
是在围绕 experiment“实验”展开叙述，再结合句意“这是众多实验中的一个，这些实验证
明了男性的大脑是分格的”可知，设空处表达“实验”。magazines“杂志”；books“书”；
experiments“实验”；works“作品”，故选 C。
35.【精析】B 根据前文的 verbal abilities“语言能力”以及 spatial abilities“空间能力”可
知，设空处表达“能力”。problems“问题”；abilities“能力”；differences“差异”；features
“特征”，故选 B。

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
12
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
【全文翻译】
在过去的五十年里，心理学家让我们相信，男女之间的差异主要是我们成长方式的结果。
根据这一理论，女性可以被训练去做男性经常做的工作，男性可以而且应该做更多的家务。
这个所谓的“新人”应该更善于交际和比较感性。
但最新出版的两本书表示，根据最近的一项科学研究，性别差异的存在是因为男性和女
性的大脑工作方式完全不同，他们的生理差异意味着他们永远无法以相同的方式思考或行为。
试试这个实验：大声读一本书或杂志上的一段话。同时，用一根手指轻敲桌子，并保持
恒定的速度。首先用右手，然后用左手。如果你是一位女性，你可以用任何一只手保持恒定
的速度。然而，男性在用左手敲击时会放慢速度。这是众多实验中的一个，这些实验证明了
男性的大脑是分功能区的，左侧是语言能力，右侧是空间能力。然而，对于女性来说，语言
能力和空间能力是由左右脑共同控制的。
四、语法填空（1.5 分/题，共 15 分）
36.【精析】doing 考查非谓语。句意：很长一段时间以来，我后悔没有多做运动。regret not
doing sth 固定搭配，意为“后悔没做某事”，故填 doing。
37.【精析】what 考查表语从句引导词。句意：我在电视上看到了一场马拉松比赛，我决
定这就是我想要做的事情。空格后是一个表语从句，从句中 do 后面缺宾语。结合句意可知，
空格处表达“…...的事情”，故填 what。
38.【精析】things 考查名词的复数。句意：我起步很慢，因为我觉得我需要慢慢地适应各
种事物。根据常识可知，做一件事情之前需要适应各种事物，故填 things。
39.【精析】joined 考查一般过去时。句意：然后我加入了一群跑步者。分析文章可知，整
篇文章的时态用的是一般过去时，如：“I went swimming in the local pool and started going to
a gym”中的谓语动词 went, started 都是一般过去时，故空格处也用一般过去时，故填 joined。
40.【精析】an 考查冠词。句意：我们每周见面，我们有一个优秀的教练，他给我们指导
和训练技巧。结合句意可知，空格处表达的是“有一个优秀的教练”并且“excellent”以元
音发音开头，故填 an。
41.【精析】better 考查形容词的比较级。句意：我差点就放弃了，因为我觉得每个人都比
我强（优秀）。关键词 than“比……”，故填 better。
42.【精析】if 考查条件状语从句的引导词。句意:我意识到如果我想参加这么大的比赛，
我必须愿意去尝试。空格处表达“如果”，故填 if。
43.【精析】regularly 考查副词。句意：我经常跑马拉松。空格处修饰动词“run”，故把
形容词 regular 变为副词 regularly，副词修饰动词，故填 regularly。
44.【精析】had run 考查虚拟语气。句意：说实话，我真希望我几年前就跑过马拉松。wish+
宾语从句，表示不大可能实现的愿望（虚拟语气），由时间状语 years ago 可知是对过去的
虚拟，wish 后面引导的是宾语从句，故填 had run。
45.【精析】it 考查搭配。句意：我当然会建议每个人都去尝试一下。give it a try 表示“试
一试”。

--- 分页分隔 ---

10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
13
10 年插本公号 · Tim 插本英语
【全文翻译】
当我年轻的时候，我不做任何运动。有很长一段时间，我都后悔没有多做运动，但最近，
我觉得事情需要改变。我在电视上看到了一场马拉松比赛，我决定这就是我想要做的事。
我开始得很慢，因为我觉得我需要慢慢地适应。我去当地的游泳池游泳，开始去健身房，
然后加入了一群跑步者。我们每周都会见面，我们有一个优秀的教练，他给我们指导和训练
技巧。
起初我发现训练很难，我几乎要放弃了，因为我认为每个人都比我好。然而，我决定坚
持下去，我真的很高兴我做到了。我意识到，如果我想参加这么大的比赛，我必须愿意去尝
试。
我现在每天跑步两次，还经常去健身房和跑马拉松。说实话，我真希望我几年前就跑过
马拉松。我当然会建议每个人都去尝试一下。它能让你感觉妙不可言。
五、写作（15 分/题，共 15 分）
Dear Tim,
I’m Li Hua, the monitor. The Dragon Boat Festival is coming. We are going to hold a class
meeting. All the teachers and students will attend the meeting. We would like to invite you to our
class meeting. I promise you’ll be very interested in it.
There will be a great number of different activities in the meeting including making zongzi,
telling stories and reciting poems and so on. The class meeting will be held on June 3 at 8 p.m. in
classroom 306 of the teaching building.
Finally, I sincerely invite you to come and I’m sure you’ll enjoy the class meeting very much.
Yours,
Li Hua