=== 第1页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
1
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
机密★启用前
广东省2024 年普通高等学校专升本招生考试
英
语
本试卷共46 小题，满分100 分。考试时间120 分钟。
第一部分阅读（共两节，满分40 分）
第一节（共15 小题，每小题2 分，满分30 分）
阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出最佳选项。
A
Our city is often seen as a concrete jungle, but actually it has vast areas of farmland where its
owners grow crops or seasonal fruits. If you’re planning a day out with the family, these spots give
kids a chance to pet and feed animals, and perhaps pick up a new hobby during a workshop.
Organic EcoPark
At this all-in-one family fun destination, buying an admission ticket will allow you to choose
from a wide range of activities, such as playing on a bouncy castle, riding horses, feeding fish,
picking vegetables and mushrooms, or taking part in a workshop.
Admission: $12 per person.
Tel: 5570221
Go Green Farm
At this farm, lots of the activities are mango-centric. You can get an insight into how the fruit
is grown and how to use it to make drinks and cakes. You can even plant a mango tree. And it is
pet-friendly. Your four-legged friends can have a good time there.
Admission: $10 per person.
Tel: 5579217
Sunrise Village
At this more than 200-year-old village, which is home to one of the largest rice production
areas in the city, you will get a chance to know the entire rice production process. It will make
your trip special. The village also offers walking tours, workshops, two-day camping experiences,
and barbecue and picnic areas for visitors.
Admission: Free (open area). Check the price list for tours and workshops.
Tel: 5545207
Butterfly Valley
The name of this farm comes from the fact that it is home to 80% of the city’s butterfly
species. And while you may get your fill of all things about butterflies, you can also sign up for
painting classes, guided tours, and handicraft workshops there. The farm doesn’t take walk-ins, so
you need to make a reservation before heading out there.


=== 第2页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
2
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
Admission: $20 (adults), $15 (kids)
Tel: 5583511
Holiday Farm
If you’re looking for unusual but fun things to do with the family, Holiday Farm will set you
up with interesting workshops. And, of course, there’s loads of play equipment to keep the kids
busy in addition to camping experiences and parent-child activities.
Admission: $30 (adults), $20 (kids)
Tel:5568402
1. At Organic EcoPark, visitors can ______.
A. build a castle
B. ride horses
C. plant vegetables
D. make drinks
2. Which of the following suits people who have a dog?
A. Go Green Farm.
B. Sunrise Village.
C. Butterfly Valley.
D. Holiday Farm.
3. What makes the trip to Sunrise Village special?
A. A guided tour.
B. Making butterfly handicrafts.
C. A camping experience.
D. Learning about the rice production.
4. What do visitors need to do before going to Butterfly Valley?
A. Study butterflies.
B. Take kids together.
C. Book in advance.
D. Sign up for classes.
5. How much does it cost a parent with two kids to visit Holiday Farm?
A. $50.
B. $70.
C. $80.
D. $100.
B
Philip Hayden, a primary school teacher, found a common weakness in some classrooms.
They didn’t have windows. And he felt it was affecting his students. “Most of the day, the kids are
inside.” Haydon said. “And they don’t really get to see any trees, grass, or the blue sky.”
The lack of windows does affect students’ mental health, as research shows. It makes their
concentration span（持续时间）shorter. But being in and around nature eases anxiety and has
benefits for them. Students who have window view of trees do better academically, emotionally
and creatively, and more of them graduate and go to college.
That’s why Hayden decided to bring nature into classrooms. At first, he planned to print
pictures of trees onto curtains in the classrooms as a way to brighten them up. However, his
colleagues reminded him that curtains would take up the wall space for maps and other teaching
materials. So he thought, “Why not use the ceilings? Teachers don’t typically use the ceilings.”
Hayden took all the photos of trees himself. Then he got them printed onto the ceilings.
“Overall, the class attendance has gone up because students are happier and want to come in more


=== 第3页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
3
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
frequently,” he said. “It has all those elements of the science that help calm kids down and help
them focus and communicate.” A student called Dave said that the new addition did bring him
peace. “It is surprising to see trees here. It is pretty great and beautiful. When I look up, it feels
like I am sitting under a tree,” Dave said.
Hayden has launched a nonprofit program called Green Classrooms. The program has
donated and installed “tree ceilings” in 10 school districts so far. “If you still don’t believe in the
science behind the art, you can try it yourself by going outside and looking up at the trees,” said
Hayden.
6. How does the lack of windows affect students?
A. It relieves their anxiety.
B. It boosts their creativity.
C. It shorten their attention span.
D. It regulates their behavior.
7. Hayden brought nature into classroom by ______.
A. planting trees in classrooms
B. installing green curtains on the walls
C. turning ceiling into windows
D. printing tree photos onto the ceiling
8. The change of the classrooms led to the students’ ______.
A. better sense of beauty
B. increased attendance
C. stronger passion for nature
D. shared interest in science
9. What is David’s attitude towards to the new addition?
A. Favorable.
B. Shocked.
C. Cautious.
D. Doubtful.
10. What is the main idea of the passage?
A. Teachers used ceilings to teach students.
B. Teachers decorated ceilings in classrooms.
C. Tree ceilings had advantages over curtains.
D. Tree ceilings helped students perform better.
C
Birds gained the ability to fly about 150 million years ago, which was a major event in
animal history. For a long time, however, scientists haven’t fully understood how that happened.
Recently, a team of researchers found birds started to fly due to changes in the part of the brain
called cerebellum（小脑）, which is responsible for muscle control and physical movement.
For the study, the scientists carried out brain scans of modern birds. With the scans, the team
tracked the brain activity of modern birds to see whether it was different when the birds were at
rest and right after they flew for 10 minutes. They scanned eight birds and looked at 26 parts of
the brain. Only the cerebellum showed significant changes in activity levels before and after flying
for all the birds.
These findings indicated that the ability to fly was connected to the cerebellum. To determine
exactly how birds started to fly, the research team needed to figure out what the cerebellum looked


=== 第4页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
4
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
like in creatures that were alive around the time when birds began to fly. They studied a group of`
bird-like dinosaurs that had started to develop the brain conditions needed for flight.
The researchers couldn’t look at the actual brains because those deteriorated long ago. But
they could look at the dinosaurs’ skulls（颅骨）, which once held the brains. In the dinosaurs that
were developing the ability to fly, the team found a significant increase in the size of the
cerebellum. They also noted signs of increased brain complexity.
These findings have confirmed a connection between flying and changes to the cerebellum.
Next, the team hopes to identify the exact areas within the cerebellum that helped the brain
prepare for flight.
11. According to Paragraph l, a major event in animal history was that ______.
A. birds’ movement was restricted
B. birds developed the ability to fly
C. birds’ cerebellum became smaller
D. birds strengthened their muscles
12.What is the second paragraph mainly about?
A. The key process of the research.
B. The application of the research.
C. The background of the research.
D. The basic principle of the research.
13.The researchers studied bird-like dinosaurs ______.
A. to assess their flight distance
B. to figure out how they developed wings
C. to control their brain conditions
D. to find what their cerebellums were like
14. What does the underlined word “deteriorated” in Paragraph 4 probably mean?
A. Developed.
B. Improved.
C. Were damaged.
D. Were enlarged.
15. In which section of a magazine does this passage most likely appear?
A. Sports.
B. Entertainment.
C. Science.
D. Health.
第二节（共5 小题，每小题2 分，满分10 分）
阅读下面短文，从短文后的选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。每个选项只能选一次。
It is well established that eating vegetables is good for us. Why, then, do some people like
them while others don’t?
16
According to the research, people who eat vegetables and show
an obvious unpleasant feeling for them can influence others.
A team of scientists set out to investigate how the facial expressions that people make as they
eat affect a person watching them. They asked more than 200 college students to watch videos of
other people eating raw broccoli（花椰菜）.
17
They would smile, seem neither happy nor
sad or look annoyed or upset by what they were eating.
The study found that when participants watched someone else eating broccoli with a strong
dislike, they began to like broccoli less.
18
When someone had a positive facial expression
while eating broccoli, people watching them did not end up liking broccoli more.
19
This means that if children see their parents or brothers and sisters not enjoying


=== 第5页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
5
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
certain food, including vegetables, they might not want to eat them either.
The team hopes to understand more about how the behavior of adults influences children’s
enjoyment of food.
20
A. However, the opposite was not true.
B. Experts think the research result could also apply to children.
C. The people in the videos had different expressions while eating.
D. A new study has found that other people’s likes and dislikes could play a part.
E. This could help experts find ways to encourage young people to eat more healthy foods.
第二部分语言运用（共两节，满分45 分）
第一节（共15 小题；每小题2 分，满分30 分，10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语）
阅读下面短文，从每题所给的A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
Lisa, a lady aged 79, has realized her lifelong dream of traveling around the world. She has
traveled to 193 countries and feels
21
of what she has accomplished in her life.
Lisa said ever since childhood, she had always dreamed of
22
. “When I watched the
movies, I noticed the amazing
23
, such as the rivers and the mountains, which attracted me a
lot,” she recalled. “That’s what
24
me to travel to these places later in my life.”
Lisa started her
25
tour when she was twenty three. To travel more
26
she
embraced a
27
as a travel agent. In the next five decades, she visited as many countries as
she could. Even though some places were considered
28
, she would say to herself, “I think I
can
29
it. I want to see these places with my own eyes, regardless of the dangers around.
“During the past 50 years, Lisa
30
countless people of different backgrounds and ages.
Through these
31
she has learned that people are more
32
than we might think. “They
are just like us. They
33
better jobs and better opportunities, and most of them are very kind
and helpful,” said Lisa.
When asked what her
34
is for people who want to travel, she said, “Don’t be afraid.
Just
35
. Don’t wait, because if you wait, it will never happen.”
21. A. guilty
B. confident
C. ashamed
D. proud
22. A. acting
B. traveling
C. filming
D. drawing
23. A. scenery
B. customs
C. history
D. tales
24. A. allowed
B. forced
C. inspired
D. required
25. A. city
B. world
C. cultural
D. ecological
26. A. aimlessly
B. conveniently
C. quickly
D. reasonably
27. A. career
B. concept
C. degree
D. discovery
28. A. remote
B. appealing
C. dangerous
D. rewarding
29. A. make
B. stop
C. leave
D. miss
30. A. taught
B. challenged
C. followed
D. met
31. A. comments
B. negotiations
C. experiences
D. directions


=== 第6页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
6
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
32. A. independent
B. helpful
C. innocent
D. similar
33. A. depend on
B. learn from
C. long for
D. begin with
34. A. warning
B. reaction
C. request
D. advice
35. A. work
B. go
C. observe
D. delay
第二节（共10 小题；每小题1.5 分，满分15 分）
阅读下面短文，在空白处填入一个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。
On his tenth birthday, Greenburg woke to the news of a serious earthquake in the city where
he was born. Living in another country but
36
(name) after his birth city, Greenburg felt he
was
37
(deep) connected to the disaster. Driven by a strong desire to help, he
38
(see)
an opportunity to make a difference through his love of running. Two years before, Greenburg had
run his first half-marathon, raising money for
39
annual charity event for kids.
This time he set a new goal,
40
was to run ten kilometers ten times, each run marking a
year of his life. He was determined
41
(use) this challenge to raise funds for the earthquake
relief. Over the course of four months, he ran a total of 100 kilometers — more than two
marathons. In his final run, the local charity center succeeded
42
organizing a community
event. Greenburg was joined by his father, his teacher and
43
(member) of the local
community.
In the end, Greenburg’s project raised more than $10,000 for the earthquake victims.
“Sometimes I felt
44
(tire),” Greenburg told the local news reporter after the last run. “But
then I would remind
45
(I) of all those people I’m helping and I would keep pushing on.”
第三部分写作（满分15 分）
46. 【写作内容】你是李华，你校英语报正向外国交换生开展题为“我眼中的中国”征文比
赛。请给你校交换生Tim 写一封电子邮件，邀请他参赛。内容包括以下要点：
(1) 活动介绍；
(2) 征文要求；
(3) 鼓励参赛。
【参考词汇】writing contest 征文比赛
【写作要求】正文约100 个英文单词，文中不可出现你自己的真实姓名、学校等信息。
【评分标准】信息完整，语言规范，语篇连贯。
【真题整理】10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语


=== 第7页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
7
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
广东省2024 年普通高等学校专升本招生考试
英语真题（参考答案精析）
一、阅读理解（2 分/题，共30 分）
A
1.【精析】B
细节题。根据题目关键词Organic EcoPark 定位到第二段，由such as playing on
a bouncy castle, riding horses 可知选B。
2.【精析】A
细节题。根据题目关键词dog 定位到第三段倒数第二句，由And it is pet-friendly
“宠物准入的”可知选A。
3.【精析】D
细节题。根据题目关键词special 定位到第四段第一句和第二句you will get a
chance to know the entire rice production process. It will make your trip special.可知选D。
4.【精析】C
细节题。由The farm doesn’t take walk-ins, so you need to make a reservation before
heading out there.可知此处不接受未经预定的客人，需要make a reservation“预约”，选项C
表示“提前预订”，符合。
5.【精析】B
细节题。注意题目的a parent with two kids 表示“一大两小”，一位大人票价
$30，两个小孩票价$40，所以共计$70。
【全文翻译】
我们的城市常被看作是一座混凝土丛林，但实际上它拥有大片农田，农田的主人会在那
里种植庄稼或季节性水果。如果你打算和家人一起外出游玩一天，这些地方可以让孩子们有
机会抚摸和喂养动物，也许还能在工作坊里培养新的爱好。
有机生态园
在这个一站式家庭娱乐目的地，购买一张入场券即可让您选择各种活动，如玩蹦床、骑
马、喂鱼、采摘蔬菜和蘑菇，或参加工作坊。
门票：12 美元/人
电话：5570221
绿动农场
在这个农场，许多活动都以芒果为中心。你可以了解这种水果是如何生长的，以及如何
用它制作饮料和蛋糕。你甚至可以种一棵芒果树。而且这里对宠物很友好。你的四条腿的朋
友可以在那里尽情玩耍。
门票：10 美元/人
电话：5579217
晨曦村
在这个拥有200 多年历史、也是城市内最大稻米产区之一的村庄里，你将有机会了解整
个稻米生产过程。这将使你的旅行变得特别。该村庄还为游客提供徒步旅行、工作坊、两日
露营体验以及烧烤和野餐区。
门票：免费（开放区域）。请查看旅游和工作坊的价格表。
电话：5545207
蝴蝶谷


=== 第8页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
8
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
这个农场的名字来源于它是该市80%蝴蝶种类的栖息地。在这里，你不仅可以尽情了
解蝴蝶的一切，还可以报名参加绘画课程、导览游和手工艺工作坊。农场不接受现场参观，
因此你需要提前预订。
门票：20 美元/成人，15 美元/儿童
电话：5583511
度假农庄
如果你正在寻找与家人一起做的既不寻常又有趣的事情，度假农庄会为你安排有趣的工
作坊。当然，除了露营体验和亲子活动外，还有许多游乐设施可以让孩子们尽情玩耍。
门票：30 美元/成人，20 美元/儿童
电话：5568402
B
6.【精析】C
细节题。根据题目关键词lack of windows 定位到第二段第一句附近，由该段
第二句It makes their concentration span shorter.“这会让他们的注意力持续时间变短。”可知
选C。
7.【精析】D
细节题。由第四段第二句Then he got them printed onto the ceilings.“然后他把
它们印在了天花板上。”可知选D。
8.【精析】B
细节题。由第四段第三句Overall, the class attendance has gone up“总的来说，
上课出勤率提高了。”可知选B。
9.【精析】A
态度题。根据题目关键词David 定位到第四段David 说的话，由surprising“令
人惊讶的”、pretty great and beautiful“非常漂亮”可知他的态度是favorable“赞许的”。
10.【精析】D
主旨题。本文主要讲了一名老师通过在教室的天花板画树帮助学生提高专注
力和兴趣的故事，D 选项意为“树形天花板帮助学生表现得更好”，符合。
【全文翻译】
小学教师菲利普·海登发现一些教室存在一个共同的缺点。它们没有窗户。他觉得这影
响了他的学生。“孩子们大多数时间都在教室里。”海登说。“他们真的看不到树木、草地
或蓝天。”
研究表明，窗户的缺乏确实会影响学生的心理健康，让他们的注意力持续时间变短。但
置身于大自然之中或周围会缓解焦虑，对学生有益。那些能从窗户看到树木的学生在学业、
情感和创造力方面都表现得更好，而且他们中有更多的人能够毕业并进入大学。
因此，海登决定把大自然引入教室。起初，他计划把树木的图片打印在教室的窗帘上，
以此来使它们更明亮。然而，他的同事提醒他，窗帘会占用墙上挂地图和其他教学材料的地
方。于是他想，“为什么不用天花板呢？老师通常不用天花板。”
海登亲自拍摄了所有树木的照片。然后他把它们打印到天花板上。“总的来说，学生的
出勤率提高了，因为他们更快乐，也更愿意经常来上课，”他说。“它包含了所有能让孩子
平静下来、帮助他们集中注意力并与人交流的科学元素。”一个名叫戴夫的学生说，这个新
添的装饰确实给他带来了平静。“在这里看到树木真是令人惊讶。它非常棒，非常美丽。当
我抬头看时，感觉就像坐在树下一样，”戴夫说。


=== 第9页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
9
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
海登发起了一项名为“绿色教室”的非营利性计划。到目前为止，该项目已在10 个学
区捐赠并安装了“树木天花板”。“如果你仍然不相信艺术背后的科学，你可以亲自到户外，
抬头看看树木，”海登说。
C
11.【精析】B
细节题。由第一段第一句Birds gained the ability to fly about 150 million years
ago, which was a major event in animal history.“鸟类大约在1.5 亿年前获得了飞行的能力，这
是动物史上的重大事件。”可知选B。
12.【精析】A
主旨题。第二段主要讲了科学家是如何开展研究的，scan“扫描”、track“追
踪”，选项A 表示“研究的关键过程”，符合。
13.【精析】D
细节题。根据题目关键词bird-like dinosaurs“鸟类恐龙”定位到第三段，由
该段第二句To determine exactly how birds started to fly, the research team needed to figure out
what the cerebellum looked like…“为了准确确定鸟类是如何开始飞行的，研究团队需要弄清
楚小脑长什么样”可知选D。
14.【精析】C
猜词题。第四段第一句The researchers couldn’t look at the actual brains because
those deteriorated long ago.表示“研究人员无法观察实际的大脑，10 年插本公号·Tim 插本
英语，因为那些大脑很久以前就deteriorated 了。”，此处的大脑“brains”指上文提到的鸟
类恐龙的大脑，但恐龙早已灭绝，它们的大脑固然也早已不复存在，故选项C“被损坏的”
符合。
15.【精析】C
来源题。文章主要讲了科学家如何开展对鸟类飞行能力的研究，由此可知文
章很可能来源于杂志的science“科学”部分。其它选项意思分别为sport“体育”、entertainment
“娱乐”、health“健康”。
【全文翻译】
鸟类大约在1.5 亿年前获得了飞行的能力，这是动物史上的一个重要事件。然而，长期
以来，科学家们一直未能完全理解这一能力是如何出现的。最近，一组研究人员发现，鸟类
之所以开始飞行，是因为大脑中称为小脑的那部分发生了变化，小脑负责肌肉控制和身体运
动。
为了进行研究，科学家们对现代鸟类的大脑进行了扫描。通过扫描，研究小组追踪了现
代鸟类的大脑活动，以观察它们在休息时和刚飞行10 分钟后的大脑活动是否有所不同。他
们对8 只鸟类进行了扫描，并观察了大脑的26 个部分。在所有鸟类中，只有小脑在飞行前
后的活动水平发生了显著变化。
这些发现表明，飞行能力与小脑有关。为了准确确定鸟类是如何开始飞行的，研究小组
需要弄清楚在鸟类开始飞行时，这些活物的小脑是什么样的。为此他们研究了一组已经开始
发展飞行所需大脑条件的鸟类恐龙。
研究人员无法观察实际的大脑，因为这些大脑很久以前就已经退化了。但他们可以观察
恐龙的头骨，这些头骨曾经容纳过大脑。在正在发展飞行能力的恐龙中，研究小组发现小脑
的大小显著增加。他们还注意到大脑复杂性的增加迹象。


=== 第10页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
10
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
这些发现证实了飞行与小脑变化之间的联系。接下来，研究小组希望确定小脑内帮助大
脑为飞行做好准备的确切区域。
二、五选五（2 分/题，共10 分，10 年插本公号·Tim 插本英语）
16.【精析】D
空格后according to the research“研究表明”与D 选项A new study has found
that“一项新研究发现”匹配。
17.【精析】C
选项C 讲人们吃东西时表情各异，与空格后展现各种表情相匹配。
18.【精析】A
空格前说进食者厌恶的表情会导致观看者也没食欲，空格后却说进食者积极
的进食表情并不会让观看者食欲增加，选项A“然而，相反的情况却不成立”能把前后文连
接起来。
19.【精析】B
选项B“专家认为研究结果同样适用于孩子”，空格后讲的是孩子们面对非
积极进食表情时也表现得没有食欲，正好对应前面的研究结果。
20.【精析】E
空格前讲专家们希望更好地了解成人的行为对孩子食欲的影响，选项E 讲这
能帮助专家找到鼓励年轻人多吃健康食品的方法，两者相匹配。
【全文翻译】
众所周知，吃蔬菜对我们有益。那么，为什么有些人喜欢吃蔬菜而有些人不喜欢呢？一
项新研究发现，其他人的喜好也可能起到一定作用。研究表明，吃蔬菜且表现出明显不快情
绪的人可以影响他人。
一组科学家开始研究人们进食时的面部表情如何影响观看者。他们让200 多名大学生观
看其他人吃生花椰菜的视频。视频中的人在进食时表现出不同的表情。他们有的面带微笑，
有的看起来既不快乐也不悲伤，有的则因为所吃的东西而显得恼火或沮丧。
研究发现，当参与者看到其他人非常不喜欢吃花椰菜时，他们自己对花椰菜的喜爱程度
也会降低。然而，相反的情况却不成立。当有人吃花椰菜时露出积极的表情，观看的人并不
会因此更加喜欢花椰菜。
专家认为，这一研究结果也可能适用于儿童。这意味着，如果儿童看到父母或兄弟姐妹
不喜欢吃某些食物（包括蔬菜），他们可能也会不想吃这些食物。
研究团队希望进一步了解成人的行为如何影响儿童对食物的喜好。这有助于专家找到鼓
励年轻人多吃健康食物的方法。
三、完形填空（2 分/题，共30 分）
21.【精析】D
考查形容词辨析。guilty“内疚的；有罪的”，confident“自信的”，ashamed
“惭愧的”，proud“自豪的”。结合语境可知她对自己游历了193 个国家一事感到自豪。
22.【精析】B
考查动词辨析。acting“表演”，traveling“旅行”，filming“电影拍摄”，
drawing“绘画”。根据第一段her lifelong dream of traveling“她毕生的旅行梦想”可知她一
直梦想着去旅行。
23.【精析】A
考查名词辨析。scenery“风景”，customs“风俗”，history“历史”，tales
“故事”。空格后举的例子是河流山川，由此可知该空指的是风景。
24.【精析】C
考查动词辨析。allowed“允许”，forced“强迫”，inspired“激励，鼓舞”，
required“要求，需要”。各种美景吸引了她，从而激励着她去这些地方旅行。


=== 第11页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
11
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
25.【精析】B
考查名词和形容词辨析。city“城市”，world“世界”，cultural“文化的”，
ecological“生态的”。根据后文she visited as many countries as she could“她游历了尽可能
多的国家”可知她环游世界“world tour”。
26.【精析】B
考查副词辨析。aimlessly“漫无目的地”，conveniently“方便地”，quickly
“迅速地”，reasonably“合理地”。后文提到她去了旅行社工作，10 年插本公号·Tim 插
本英语，由此可知她是为了更方便旅行“travel more conveniently”。
27.【精析】A
考查名词辨析。career“职业”，concept“概念”，degree“学位”，discovery
“发现”。根据情景可知她为了更方便旅行所以去了旅行社工作。
28.【精析】C
考查形容词辨析。remote“偏远的”，appealing“吸引人的”，dangerous“危
险的”，rewarding“值得做的”。由段末的regardless of the dangers around“不管周围有多
危险”可知答案。
29.【精析】A
考查动词辨析。make it“（经历艰难困苦后）成功”，stop“停止”，leave
“离开”，miss“错过；思念”。I think I can make it. I want to see these places with my own eyes,
regardless of the dangers around.“我认为我能做到。我想亲眼看看这些地方，不管周围有多
危险。”
30.【精析】D
考查动词辨析。taught“教育”，challenged“挑战”，followed“跟随”，
met“遇见”。“过去50 年里，丽莎遇见了无数不同背景和年龄的人”。
31.【精析】C
考查名词辨析。comments“评论；批评”，negotiations“谈判，协商”，experiences
“经历；经验”，directions“方向”。“通过这些经历，她意识到……”。
32.【精析】D
考查形容词辨析。independent“独立的”，helpful“有用的”，innocent“无
辜的”，similar“相似的”。“通过这些经历，她意识到人们比我们想象的更相似”。由后
文They are just like us.可知答案，“他们就像我们一样”。
33.【精析】C
考查动词短语辨析。depend on“依靠”，learn from“学习”，long for“渴
望”，begin with“始于”。“他们就像我们一样。他们渴望更好的工作和更好的机会”。
34.【精析】D
考查名词辨析。warning“警告”，reaction“反应”，request“请求”，advice
“建议”。“当被问及她对想旅行的人有什么建议时，她说，‘别害怕’”。
35.【精析】B
考查动词辨析。通过后文“不要等待”可知，丽莎建议读者行动起来。
【全文翻译】
79 岁的丽莎女士实现了她环游世界的梦想。游历了193 个国家，她对自己一生中所取
得的成就感到自豪。
丽莎说，她从小就有环游世界的梦想。“我看电影时，注意到里面壮观的风景，比如河
流和山川，非常吸引我，”她回忆道。“正是这些风景激发了我日后去这些地方旅行的想
法。”
丽莎在23 岁时开始了她的环球旅行。为了更方便旅行，她选择成为了一名旅行社工作
人员。在接下来的50 年里，她游历了尽可能多的国家。即使有些地方被认为是危险的，她
也会对自己说：“我想我可以做到。无论周围多危险，我都想用自己的眼睛看看这些地方。”


=== 第12页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
12
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
“在过去的50 年里，丽莎结识了无数不同背景和年龄的人。通过这些经历，她意识到
人们之间的相似之处比我们想象的要多。“他们和我们一样。都渴望更好的工作和更好的机
会，而且他们中的大多数人都非常善良和乐于助人，”丽莎说。
当被问及对于那些想要旅行的人有何建议时，她说：“不要害怕。出发就好。不要等待，
因为如果你等待，那就永远不会实现。”
四、语法填空（1.5 分/题，共15 分）
36.【精析】named
考查非谓语动词。name 作动词意为“命名”，后面Greenburg felt…是
主语和谓语，所以动词name 要充当非谓语动词，其逻辑主语是country，和name 之间是被
动关系，故用过去分词表被动。
37.【精析】deeply
考查副词。本题was connected to 是谓语，意为“与……有联系”，提
示词deep 是形容词“深的”，要转换成副词去修饰动词词组，故答案为deeply。
38.【精析】saw
考查谓语动词的时态。本题he 是主语，缺乏谓语，所以提示词see 要充当
谓语动词。联系上下文，运用了一般过去时描述过去的事情，故本题也用一般过去时，答案
为saw。
39.【精析】an
考查冠词。空格后有“形容词+可数名词单数”的结构annual charity event，
且是本文第一次提及，故填不定冠词。又因annual 以元音发音开头，故填不定冠词an。
40.【精析】which
考查非限定性定语从句。空格前有名词goal“目标”，且有逗号，可知
考查非限制性定语从句。空格后有谓语was，可知该处要作主语，指代物，故填引导词which。
41.【精析】to use
考查非谓语动词。空格前已经出现谓语was，提示词use 为动词“使用”，
只能充当非谓语动词。又因为固定搭配be determined to do sth.“决心要做某事”，故填答案
to use。
42.【精析】in
考查介词固定搭配。固定搭配succeed in doing sth.，意为“成功做某事”，
故填介词in。
43.【精析】members
考查名词复数。空格给出提示词member，是名词“成员”，联系语
境，成员不止一个，故填名词复数members。
44.【精析】tired
考查形容词。feel+形容词，表示“感到……”，故填tired“疲倦的”；
此外，tiring 表示“令人疲倦的”。
45.【精析】myself
考查代词。本空在动词remind 后作宾语，主语是I，应用反身代词，故
填myself。
【全文翻译】
在十岁生日那天，格林伯格醒来时听到他出生的城市发生了严重地震的消息。格林伯格
生活在另一个国家，但他的名字是以他的出生城市命名的，他觉得自己与这场灾难有着深刻
的联系。在一种强烈的助人愿望的驱使下，他看到了一个通过他对跑步的热爱来改变世界的
机会。两年前，格林伯格第一次跑了半程马拉松，为一年一度的儿童慈善活动筹集资金。
这次他定了一个新目标，跑10 公里，跑10 次，每跑一次，代表他生命中的一年。他决
心利用这次挑战为抗震救灾筹集资金。在四个月的时间里，他总共跑了100 公里，比两次马


=== 第13页 ===
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
13
10 年插本公号· Tim 插本英语
拉松还多。在他最后一次跑步中，当地慈善中心成功组织了一次社区活动。格林伯格的父亲、
老师和当地社区的成员也加入了进来。
最终，格林伯格的项目为地震灾民筹集了10 多万美元。“有时候我觉得很累，”格林
伯格在最后一次跑步后告诉当地新闻记者。“但随后我会想起所有我正在帮助的人，我会继
续努力。”
五、写作（15 分/题，共15 分）
Dear Tim,
Knowing that you have shown interest in Chinese culture, I’m writing to invite you to a
writing contest designed for exchange students in our school.
First and foremost, the contest, whose theme is “China in My Eyes”, will be held by the
English Newspaper of our school in our school library on April 18th, 2024. Moreover, the
contestants are supposed to write an essay of about two hundred words regarding “What appeals
to you most about Chinese traditional culture?” and “What kind of Chinese food is your favorite?”
and so on. All submissions must be received by April 10th, 2024.
Since you have made great progress in learning Chinese, why not participate in this activity?
I’m sure that you will have a good performance in it. Looking forward to your prompt reply!
Yours,
Li Hua
